docs: expand documentation on node pools (#18109)
hashicorp/nomad: website/content/docs/concepts/architecture.mdx

region. Datacenters provide a way to express fault tolerance among jobs as
well as isolation of infrastructure.

#### Node

A more generic term used to refer to machines running Nomad agents in client
mode. Unless noted otherwise, it may be used interchangeably with

> [client](#client).

Reviewer: I kind of disagree with noting that it may be used interchangeably (even though it often is). Node is intended to refer to the machine (and operating system, etc.) while Client refers to the Nomad agent running in client mode. We should avoid conflating the terms in our own docs.

> [client](#client).

Author: > when can it be different?

"Node" is a very generic term that different people use it to mean different things 😅 

For example, a node in a network context can be anything sending or receiving traffic, like a computer, a router, a switch, or maybe even an allocation, like a sidecar proxy. So if you're talking about Nomad's network topology, "node" may not necessarily mean this specific definition.

But to @shoenig's point, I think I didn't express myself well here. I meant more like "you may see or hear people using them interchangeably", which I have in informal conversations, issues, community blog posts etc.

Maybe this sentence would be better like this:

```
Despite being different concepts, you may find the term "node" being used interchangeably with "client" in some materials.
```

> Node is intended to refer to the machine (and operating system, etc.)

To the machine running a Nomad client right? I don't recall us using "node" to refer to machines running servers. For example, the `nomad node` commands and `/v1/node/` endpoints are only about clients.

> [client](#client).

Author: I ping-ponged a bit on how to phrase this and ended up here:
https://github.com/hashicorp/nomad/blob/efc2e3746019c7c62930dab14a02c0377475a79c/website/content/docs/concepts/architecture.mdx#L116-L120

Is this a better description? Or maybe I should just leave this part out?

like operating system and kernel version, or they can be business constraints like
ensuring PCI compliant workloads run on appropriate servers.

> # Client Organization

Author: I'm not sure if this is the best place to have this, or if this is a good name, so I'm open to suggestions 😄

Author: Moved to its own page and adjusted the first section a bit:
https://github.com/hashicorp/nomad/pull/18109/files#diff-933fc372992990c21ae0cd52f2e8106d7c7c749fc34bb2617731c75477811de7R7-R19

When the Nomad [scheduler][] receives a job registration request, it needs to
determine which clients will run allocations for the job. By default, all nodes
are considered for placements but this process can be adjusted by cluster
operators and job submitters to achieve more control over where allocations
are placed.

> The steps to achieve this control consists of setting certain values in

Reviewer 2: If this paragraph is used to introduce Affinities and Constraints, Datacenter, Nodepools... it would be worth mentioning them.

Author: Hum...I don't quite follow. I think the confusion may be that I'm using "setting" as the gerund of the verb "to set", not as "configuration".

But this paragraph is gone once I moved this section to the new Scheduling -> Placements page 😅

clients' configuration and matching them in jobs, and so it's helpful to
consider how clients will be configured based on your expected job registration
patterns when planning your cluster deployment.

There are several options that can be used depending on the desired outcome.

### Affinities and Constraints

Affinities and constraints allow users to define soft or hard requirements for
their jobs. The [`affinity`][job_affinity] block specifies a soft requirement
on certain node properties, meaning allocations for the job have a preference
for some nodes, but may be placed elsewhere if the rules can't be matched,
while the [`constraint`][job_constraint] block creates hard requirements and
allocations can only be placed in nodes that match these rules. Job placement
fails if a constraint cannot be satisfied.

These rules can reference intrinsic node characteristics, which are called
[node attributes][] and are automatically detected by Nomad, static values
defined in the agent configuration file by cluster administrators, or dynamic
values defined after the agent starts.

> Using affinities and constraints has the downside of only allowing allocations
> to gravitate towards certain nodes, but it does not prevent placements of jobs
> where the rules don't apply.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Using affinities and constraints has the downside of only allowing allocations
to gravitate towards certain nodes, but it does not prevent placements of other
jobs for which the rules don't apply.
```

I think?

Reviewer 2: Im a little confused here: constraints are hard requirements and "Job placement fails if a constraint cannot be satisfied." but at the same time they don't " it does not prevent placements of jobs where the rules don't apply" ?

Author: > I think?

Yup, that's right. Thanks!

> Im a little confused here: constraints are hard requirements and "Job placement fails if a constraint cannot be satisfied." but at the same time " it does not prevent placements of jobs where the rules don't apply" ?

Yeah, it's kind of weird to describe in text, so maybe I should put an example.

But imagine you have two jobs, one with a constraint and one without any constraints:

```hcl
job "app"  {
  constraint {
    attribute = "${meta.env}"
    value      = "prod"
  }
  # ...
}
```

```hcl
job "db"  {
  # ...
}
```

The `app` job is only allowed to run in clients with metadata `env=prod`, but the `db` is free to run anywhere, including clients with `env=prod`. 

So if you want to reserve the `env=prod` clients to only run `app` then you need a negative constraint in _all other_ jobs:

```hcl
job "db"  {
  constraint {
    attribute = "${meta.env}"
    operator  = "!="
    value      = "prod"
  }
  # ...
}
```

So constraints are kind of unidirectional in this sense: you can restrict a _job_ to specific nodes, but you can't restrict a _node_ to specific jobs.

Does this help?

Author: Updated this paragraph as I moved this section to the `Scheduler` section
https://github.com/hashicorp/nomad/blob/4f4ba9fdfc71eab2665c6091b249b711c6eb1f81/website/content/docs/concepts/scheduling/placement.mdx#L36-L38

Is this better or should I add an example to help illustrate the problem?

> Use affinities and constraints when certain jobs have certain node preferences
> but is acceptable to have other jobs sharing the same nodes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Use affinities and constraints when certain jobs have certain node preferences
but it is acceptable to have other jobs sharing the same nodes.
```

Given the strong connotation of a geographical location, use datacenters to
represent where a node resides rather than its intended use. The
[`spread`][] block can help achieve fault tolerance across datacenters.

### Node Pool

Node pools allow grouping nodes that can be targeted by jobs to achieve
workload isolation.

Similarly to datacenters, node pools are configured in an agent configuration
file using the [`node_pool`][config_client_node_pool] attribute, and are opt-in
on jobs, allowing restricted use of certain nodes by specific jobs without
extra configuration.

But unlike datacenters, node pools don't have a preconceived notion and can be
used for several use cases, such as segmenting infrastructure per environment
(development, staging, production), by department (engineering, finance,
support), or by functionality (databases, ingress proxy, applications).

Node pools are also a first-class concept and can hold additional [metadata and
configuration][spec_node_pool].

Use node pools when there is a need to restrict and reserve certain nodes for
specific workloads, or when you need to adjust specific [scheduler

> configuration][spec_node_pool_sched_config] values.

Reviewer 3: Probably a nice place to plug that node pools can be associated with namespaces in Nomad Enterprise.

Author: Good idea. Added a blurb about it after moving this content.
https://github.com/hashicorp/nomad/blob/4f4ba9fdfc71eab2665c6091b249b711c6eb1f81/website/content/docs/concepts/scheduling/placement.mdx#L104-L105
